Random forests take advantage of perturbations applied to both columns and rows.
Let's take a moment to describe how to generate a random forest model.
Let's say we're working with this dataset.
We know we're going to generate many trees and combine their predictions together.
We first choose the number of trees to generate.
This is a hyper parameter of the algorithm that the user chooses in advance.
Now, let's start growing the first tree.
First, we'll generate the dataset that this tree will be trained on using bagging.
There are n rows in the original dataset.
So let's select one row n times
each time picking a row from the entire original set of rows.
In other words, with replacement.
By sampling with replacement,
some of the original rows may be repeated in the new dataset.
This kind of sample is called a bootstrap sample.
Now that we have the dataset for the single tree,
let's start growing the tree.
At each split, we pick m features to
consider when determining which will provide the best split.
In this example, let's assume m equals three.
So, to generate the first split,
let's randomly choose three features.
Among these features, we calculate the gender or hobby provide the best split.
Let's pick gender. Now, let's keep developing the tree.
We'll randomly choose another three features for the split on the male node.
In this case, age or platform provide the best split.
Let's use age. Now, all the leaves are pure.
If this were not the case,
we would continue to randomly pick three features to
consider for each split until the tree was fully grown.
Great. We've created the first tree.
Now, we repeat this procedure to grow all the other trees in the forest and we're done.
Now, we have quite a few trees,
and hopefully, they are all quite different.
Remember, they were trained on different datasets and at each split of each tree,
a different set of features was considered.
Now, when we have a new observation we want to classify,
we just let the trees vote.
Each of the trees classifies that observation and
the class with the most predictions is the prediction of the ensemble.